#summary Here will be the description of our xml file format.

= Introduction =

Our TraceBookTrack files contain osm data and media data which is linked to files relative to the folder the `*`.tbt files are stored in.


= Details =

Each `*`.tbt file has a standard xml header. The default encoding of the file is UTF-8.
example: 
 {{{
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='yes' ?>
}}}
It is followed by the root node with the name "osm" which contains information about the osm version that it conforms to, and which generator tool created it. This makes the file readable for JOSM even without our plugin, if you rename it to "`*`.osm", with the limitation that no media information can be displayed.
example: 
 {{{
<osm version="0.6" generator="TraceBook">
}}}

The root node may contain either nodes or ways.
example
 {{{
<node lat="52.4569883" lon="13.2957700" id="2" timestamp="2011-03-07T14:40:51.105+0000" version="1" />
}}}
or 
 {{{
<way version="1" id="1">
}}}
A node contains coordinates, a unique id and an editing version.
A way contains only the unique id and the editing version.
Note that all nodes must be before any way.

Like in OSM xml format, each node and way can contain tags, with additional information for the special point or way.
example:
 {{{
<tag k="area" v="yes" />
}}} 
for a way or
 {{{
<tag k="amenity" v="postbox" />
}}} 
for a node.
Additionally, each node can contain media links to provide additional information for later editing.
example:
 {{{
<link href="test.txt" />
}}}

Every way needs to have at least one node as child reference.
example:
 {{{
<way version="1" timestamp="2011-03-08T14:35:18.538+0100" id="1" area="yes">
 <tag v="yes" k="area"/>
 <nd ref="2" />
 <nd ref="10" />
 <nd ref="3" />
 <nd ref="2" />
</way>
}}}